# Toy
The toy programming language.

This repository is a test bed to allow me to test code or the Simple programming language. The syntax defined by the Toy language is a subset of the Simple language, but the code that defines the system is intended to be directly applicable to the Simple language. The intent is to develop them in parallel so that they add to each other as the projects progress.

Toy is more like a stripped down C than it is like some other. There are some important differences.

The Toy code
```
while {
  ; do things
}
```
Is equivalent to the C code
```
while(1) {
  // do things
}
```

The Toy code
```
if(some_expression) {
  ; do things
} else(another_expression) {
  ; do things
} else {
  ; do things
}
```
Is equivalent to the C code
```
if(some_expression) {
  // do things
} else if(another_expression) {
  // do things
} else {
  // do things
}
```

Toy is a work in progress and it is far from complete. See the notes in the docs directory for a more current status. I keep a TODO list there as well as actual design notes.

### Dependencies

To build Toy, you need at least the following packages

* GCC or Clang (see build instructions below)
  * note that clang-format is used to "make format"
* CMake
* Bison and Flex
* Doxygen (to build the docs)
* Graphviz (supports Doxygen)
* Git
* Firefox -- Optional.
* KDBG -- Optional. It's the best graphical GDB debugger that I know of.

### Build

There are several scripts that should be used to build and test. To change the compiler look at the last line in the ``.project_env`` file. Then re-create the build directory.

* $ ``./scripts/setup``
  This script will create the build directory and initialize cmake. There are other capabilities that are centered around making common tasks easier. Look at the file ``.project_env`` for more information.

  Setup adds the project to the ``$PATH`` and sets some environment vars to help development.

  To leave the development environment simply type ``exit`` to leave the sub shell.

* ``build`` and ``rebuild``
  These are simple shell script wrappers around ``make``.

* ``docs``
  Start firefox to view the documentation created by Doxygen.

* ``clean``
  Assumes that you are not in the development shell. Deletes the directories that are generated by building the project.


